Implicit trust (#82)
ietf-rats-wg/architecture: draft-ietf-rats-architecture.md

physically resistant to hardware tampering.  The component that is
implicitly trusted is often referred to as a Root of Trust.

> A conveyance protocol that is authenticated and integrity protected can be used

Reviewer: I assume what is meant here is:

* evidence is protected
* remote peers are (mutually) authenticated

> A conveyance protocol that is authenticated and integrity protected can be used

Author: ```suggestion
A conveyance protocol that provides authentication and integrity protection can be used
```

to convey unprotected Evidence, assuming the following properties exists:

>    1. The key used to authenticate and integrity protect the conveyance channel is trusted by the Verifier to speak for the Attesting Environment that collected claims about the Target Environment.

Reviewer: keys? of at least two remote peers? We are talking about a "Secure Channel" to convey unprotected Evidence right?

Also? In theory, unprotected Evidence are just Claims?

I am not sure if we should water down evidence, in general. Evidence should be tamper-evident. In consequent, messing with evidence conveyed via "secure channel" must be evident with a similar level of assurance.

>    1. The key used to authenticate and integrity protect the conveyance channel is trusted by the Verifier to speak for the Attesting Environment that collected claims about the Target Environment.

Author: ```suggestion
   1. The key used to authenticate and integrity protect the conveyance channel is trusted by the Verifier to speak for the Attesting Environment(s) that collected claims about the Target Environment(s).
```

>    1. The key used to authenticate and integrity protect the conveyance channel is trusted by the Verifier to speak for the Attesting Environment(s) that collected claims about the Target Environment(s).

Author: ```suggestion
   1. The key material used to authenticate and integrity protect the conveyance channel is trusted by the Verifier to speak for the Attesting Environment(s) that collected claims about the Target Environment(s).
```

>    2. The Evidence in the conveyance channel is supplied by the Attesting Environment.

Reviewer 2: same question about "the Attesting Environment"... which Attesting Environment?  Also the phrase reads as a tautology, can we wordsmith somehow?

>    2. The Evidence in the conveyance channel is supplied by the Attesting Environment.

Author: ```suggestion
   2. All unprotected Evidence that is conveyed is supplied exclusively by the Attesting Environment that has the key that protects the conveyance channel
```

>    2. All unprotected Evidence that is conveyed is supplied exclusively by the Attesting Environment that has the key that protects the conveyance channel

Author: ```suggestion
   2. All unprotected Evidence that is conveyed is supplied exclusively by the Attesting Environment that has the key  material that protects the conveyance channel
```

>    3. The Root of Trust protects both the conveyance channel key and the Attesting Environment with equivalent strength protections.

Author: ```suggestion
   3. The Root of Trust protects both the conveyance channel key material and the Attesting Environment with equivalent strength protections.
```

physically resistant to hardware tampering.  The component that is
implicitly trusted is often referred to as a Root of Trust.

> Implicit trust can also be tied to the communications link over which

Author: ```suggestion
Trust can also be tied to the communications link over which
```

Reviewer 3: +1

the Evidence is conveyed. As an example, the Attester and Verifier can

> communicate over a link that is established using a Root of Trust.  An example of such communications
> is over a cellular link, where the link is established by the Attester leveraging an enclave (e.g., SIM card).  The Verifier may have established the communications link and verified

Reviewer 2: Two sentences starting "As an example, ... An example of such ..." reads poorly.

```suggestion
communicate over a link that is established using a Root of Trust, such as a cellular link established by the Attester leveraging an enclave (e.g., SIM card).  The Verifier may have established the communications link and verified
```

Reviewer 3: I can't tell if this paragraph is intended to add intuition to "Root of Trust" or to describe the duties of a Verifier that leverages a pre-existing comms session to protect the integrity of Evidence (and to ascribe the semantics of the key that the Attester 'claims' the assertions in the Evidence are accurate representation of current state of the Target environment).

the presence of the Root-of-Trust in doing so, or may have received evidence that the communications
link is anchored to a Root of Trust from an entity that established the
communications link
or may have received evidence that the communications link is anchored to a

> Root of Trust from an entity that established the communications link.

Reviewer 2: Redundant with lines 704-706

In the latter case, anchoring the communications link to a Root of Trust would mean
that this entity only established a communications link with the attesting

> device after verifying that the device had a Root of Trust.

Reviewer 2: I don't think this wording is correct.   Maybe "a Root of Trust that this entity trusts"?

Reviewer 3: It is at least verbose.

> As a result, the Verifier may be able to trust the attestation evidence from the device without

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a result, the Verifier may be able to trust the attestation Evidence from the Attester without
```

> As a result, the Verifier may be able to trust the attestation evidence from the device without
> an additional endorsement or even a cryptographically-verifiable signature of the

Author: ```suggestion
As a result, the Verifier may be able to trust the attestation evidence from the device without
endorsement or cryptographically-verifiable signature of the
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe noun/verb mismatch?  I don't think a policy trusts something, I think the Verifier trusts something based on policy.

> evidence.  Note that the appraisal policy employed by the Verifier may take into account the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Evidence.  Note that the Appraisal Policy employed by the Verifier may take into account the
```

transient nature of the communications link security.  For instance, once the link is torn down

> then the Evidence may not be trusted until it is conveyed again over a re-established link.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
then the Evidence might not be trusted until it is conveyed again over a re-established link.
```

Reviewer 3: This whole section seems to be more that of a use case that describes an architectural principle or concept than directly stating the principle or concept.  

I think the principle is:
- A conveyance protocol that is authenticated and integrity protected can be used to convey unprotected Evidence IF the following properties hold:
a) The key used to authenticate and integrity protect the conveyance channel is trusted by the Verifier to speak for the Attesting Environment that collected claims about the Target Environment.
b) The Evidence in the conveyance channel is supplied by the Attesting Environment.
c) The Root of Trust protects the key and the Attesting Environment with equivalent strength.

Reviewer 2: Agree and I like Ned's articulation above. Maybe the PR should just say what's in Ned's principle?

Reviewer 4: I have no objection.  It is concise and captures my original inten.  @nedmsmith - will you be taking the lead on the PR revision.
